Hoyle in the previous lecture we have been talking about one of the most important unsupervised learning
clustering algorithms the so-called K means clustering.
And in this little example I would like to show you how to deal with K means clustering in Python.
So first of all let's create blobs.
Basically I would like to generate 100 samples 100 points in the two dimensional plane with five centers.
This random state is equal to zero.
It's basically just the seed.
This make Blorb function uses a random number generator to generate random coordinates on a two dimensional
plane.
So that's why we need a seed.
And we can define a standard deviation of the cluster.
For example I initialize it to be two.
Ok then I would like to show we.
So we have to call the BLT that scatterplot this X is going to store the first coordinate and the second
coordinates.
So that's why every single item as far as the first column is concerned and every single item as far
as the second column is concerned.
The ass defines the size of the dots.
So let's see and go to court.
Say that and let's run this algorithm.
So k means one data point.
OK we have managed to generate these points.
There are a hundred samples or 100 points on these two dimensional plane and we would like to create
five clusters with the help of k means clustering.
So we just have to instantiate these k means.
I guess that we can specify the and samples is equals to 5.
Maybe it is a bit better because here we can define that.
How many clusters we are looking for.
We would like to find for example three clusters.
We just have to call the estimator that fit on the data set.
And of course we can predict with the map of the predicate function as usual.
So we have the data set and we have the predicted labels.
And that's why in our scatterplot we can use the original data set.
So basically the points and we can use color codes because we are going to assign different colors to
different clusters.
This is the size of the dots OK and basically we would like to use these colors.
OK.
And of course we have to call the show method.
So I'm going to close it and I'm going to run or algorithm.
What does it mean that we are looking for three clusters.
We have the data set.
We doubt any labels.
This is what we have been discussing it's very important that it is an unsupervised machine learning
algorithm.
We just have the data set and the algorithm is going to find the Klosters for us.
So what are going to be the clusters.
OK.
And samples.
I guess it's not going to be fine.
And of course already for that because not the samples but the clusters.
So the number of clusters are equals is.
Well that's clear the console and we run the algorithm.
OK this is the data set.
And as you can see Kamins clustering has managed to found three clusters.
What if we would like to find for example five clusters.
It's going to work just fine.
OK let's rerun the algorithm.
This is the dataset again.
And as you can see now k means clustering ghagra them is able to find one two three four five clusters.
So basically it's very important because we have managed to construct an algorithm the so-called Kamins
clustering that's capable of analyzing the data and create the Klosters on its own in the next lecture.
We are going to talk about text clustering and natural language processing and Kamins clustering will
prove to be very very important because we are able to closter the tax documents articles on the web
without human intervention and we don't have to make a data set because it is not a supervised learning
algorithm that needs the training data we the training targets here we just need the data set and the
algorithm itself is going to create the Klosters accordingly.
So that's all about K means clustering in the next lecture we are going to talk about tax flustering.
Thanks for watching.